#+TITLE:  Literacy Narrative
#+AUTHOR: Richard Cuminale
#+DATE:   23 August 2018

My sense of self as a writer has changed a lot over time. I used not
to even consider myself a writer at all, but instead I was someone who
found himself in situations where he was compelled to write, and these
situations started with papers and projects, moved on to cover
letters, resumes, emails and letters, and eventually brought my to
lesson plans, unit plans, and other instructional materials. The paper
I write even now is one I am compelled to write as I prepare the
Writing Process Unit. Somehow, however, as I continued to complete
these writing assignments I became a writer. I write now with
confidence, knowing this is my craft and I am capable at it. I write
for pleasure and fun as I work my way through writing a novel that has
been a burden on my heart for more than a decade. I'm not quite sure
though how this transition happened.

When I think of my early writing experiences my mind is first drawn to
elementary school where I appreciated writing both as a child and as
an adult. One of my favorite assignments in third grade involved story
writing: we were giving a small, silly picture (a mouse dressed up as
a bank-robber holding a bag full of cash) and the challenge to write a
story around it. I loved the liberty of being able to invent whatever
I liked about the situation with the knowledge that it only had to be
fun. Any writing that involved invention captivated me. On the other
hand, I also loved the idea of writing in cursive because it was a
skill clearly for "grown-ups", and by writing this way somehow I too
was a grown-up. It was like gaining access to an elite community.

Of course, high-school writing often is nothing like this, involving
neither story-writing nor cursive. Maybe this is why, when I consider
my high school experiences, I still think of myself as a struggling
paper writer first. I think of Ms. Bierbower's English class in 11th
grade. I took honors English because I loved to read and I was told I
had talent as a writer so the class should have showed me new things
that I would enjoy learning about. I think she was a good teacher, but
what I remember most was not writing the papers. I would receive the
assignment with fear, then sit in anxiety as I put it off and off and
off. The time would come to turn it in and I would sit at my desk
paralyzed as Ms. Bierbower would come down the rows, pause by my blank
desk, sigh when I didn't look up let alone turn something in, and then
move on.

Of course, later my parents would find out that I hadn't done my work
and they would get angry as usual. I still hear the refrain, "Why
can't you just do your work?" Then the worst part would come: I'd have
to --- /have/ to --- sit in front of the computer with my English
textbook and assignment and type the paper from start to finish. The
blank page terrified me then, and it still frightens me now. I'd spend
thirty minutes on the heading, font, spacing, etc --- whatever I could
find to avoid the actual writing. Then when I did begin, I would hate
every word I wrote. As my work progressed, my attitude would shift
from "Just get something down" to "Just finish it, who cares what it
looks like, just get it done." Writing was a chore, a transaction. I
was never invested in what I wrote. Then I would turn it in late and
get a B or B+ on it. Instead of encouraging me that I had writing
ability and not to be so afraid of it, this made me think instead that
I was good at doing things at the last minute, or that the teacher was
an easy grader, and I never changed my ways.

I wonder why writing was so hard for me. I think it was because I
hated seeing my own words on the page. Something changed when my
writing moved from stories for fun to my thoughts that would be
evaluated. I was never told my silly stories in third grade were poor,
yet my papers never seemed to be good enough. It made me uncomfortable
because I felt like I was full of it, like my writing and ideas were
BS, and I was inferior to the other writers I liked to read. It wasn't
until I gave myself permission to write a bad first draft that writing
stopped becoming so painful. Now it's not a big deal to write
papers, but still some of the pain remains even now.

But there's no getting around it: the training I hated in high school
helped me to write papers in college, and writing papers in college
got me used to writing my ideas down and explaining myself, and when,
in college, I had to write so much that five-page papers became
routine homework assignments, that's when I truly began to grow as a
writer. Now as a teacher I understand the writing process really for
the first time, and I can take advantage of it to do the writing that
I want to do and that I like to create. I suppose the demands of
school created the space for writing, and the freedom of being outside
instruction allowed me to find the material I find pleasure working
with in that space. Now I feel like my day is missing something if I
don't write my dreams or my thoughts of the day. I feel my fantasy
novel growing every day in my head, and I'm /eager/ to put my new
ideas down before I forget them. I correspond with friends over mail
and email, and it's a pleasure to take out my old typewriter and bang
out a letter, and I understand myself to be good at writing in these
forms. 

I began this essay considering myself a writer, and I now end it
considering myself a good writer. What makes me a good writer? What
makes any writer good? I think I'm finally good at it because I know
that what I put on the page is both honest and accurate. Of course, my
writing is full of errors, but it does accurately capture my mind, my
thoughts, my feelings, and my imagination. I think this is what is
most important, because writing is a human endeavor --- no matter how
small --- and it should always have something of the human experience
in it.

































